---
title: A bit on prime numbers
date: 2018-04-01
math: true
diagram: true
markup: mmark
---

Consider prime numbers — surely, the stuff of grade school. I remember being seven and delighted to recite the first 40 primes, until the digits of $\pi$ quickly became more fashionable and primes were forgotten forever more. Prime numbers simply seem too unpredictable in nature to consider in much depth; they merely pop up as they please along the number line. For a long time this seemed mysterious to me, but I did not think there is much more to it.

Fast forward twelve years and I am in my number theory class, completely intrigued as my professor revives this seemingly ancient topic. He quickly demonstrates that primes are commonly spaced two apart, but are there infinitely many such pairs? Yes, he proposes, while scratching “[The Twin Prime Conjecture](http://mathworld.wolfram.com/TwinPrimeConjecture.html)” onto the blackboard. This simple postulate has commanded the attention of mathematicians for centuries, and yet it is still just that — a postulate. That’s when it occurs to me that there is more to prime numbers than I will ever understand.

In the next few weeks, I learn the following: there is a closed formula to estimate the number of primes smaller than any given number. There are infinitely many primes of the form $4k+3$. For any given number $n$, there exist two consecutive primes at least $n$ apart.

Prime numbers are a gift that keeps on giving. Something so simple never fails to yield surprising patterns, beautiful proofs, and new conjectures. From prime numbers, I have learned that there is always more to learn, even where I least expect it. As I look around me, I hope to always question what I think I know, and wonder what there still remains to explore.
